Their best one is like a briar, their most upright one is worse than a thorn hedge.
This is an example of many agricultural metaphors that Micah used in his writing.
But who is he talking about?
Why did he say this and what lesson can we take away from today's text?
To find the historical setting, it's helpful to look at the table of Bible books that
appears on page 1662 of the printed edition of our New World Translation.
But if you're using the JW Library app, this is what you need to do.
Please follow along.
First, go to your homepage for the Bible.
In the menu bar at the top, you'll see the word introduction at the left.
At the bottom of the list that comes up, you'll see names and order of the books.
Tap that.
And don't be put off by the fact that you're only seeing the names and order of the books.
Rather, scroll all the way down to the bottom.
And there you will see table of books of the Bible.
Tap that.
You can bookmark it if you'd like to get there faster the next time.
And then scroll down to Micah.
What do we learn about the context of our day's text written by Micah?
Do that?
Where was he in Judah?
When did he write this prophecy, sometime before the year 717 BCE?
And what time period does his writing cover?
The 60 years spanning from 777 to 717, counting backwards toward the time of Jesus.
Now, what was happening during those 60 years?
We have a chart in Appendix A6 that helps us.
Again, if you're following along in Watchtower Library, go to the upper left hand
corner of your screen and tap the menu bar, names and order, that is to say, go back.
There you'll see toward the bottom of the list, Appendix A, or you can always go back
to the home page and select Appendix A from the menu ribbon.
In any event, when you get to Appendix A, you'll see the option for A6 chart, prophets
and kings of Judah and of Israel.
And remember, we're looking for what life was like during the 60 years between 777 and
717.
So likely part two would reveal what we're looking for, tap part two.
There we find this beautiful chart.
What does it tell us that Micah was a contemporary of Isaiah and Hosea, and that his service is
a prophet in Judah, rendering the reins of Jotham for 16 years, wicked King A has for 16
years, but also most of Hezekiah's 29-year reign.
Meanwhile, what was happening up in the Northern Ten Tribe Kingdom?
Look at the chart again on the right, starting in 777 BCE, 19 years left of Pekha's reign,
and then nine years of Hosea's rule.
But here things begin to destabilize.
We see the Assyrian monarchy moving in, exerting its influence in Israel's affairs.
And then in 740, it's all over for the Northern Ten Tribe Kingdom.
Did those events have an influence on the south?
Certainly it fed the Assyrians pride, fueling their belief that they could come in and overtake
Judah in the same fashion.
And what do we know about Jotham, A has and Hezekiah?
Well, it was during Jotham's reign that Judah began to experience military pressure from
an alliance between King Pekha and King Reason of Syria.
And that alliance would eventually weaken Judah's defenses and leave them open to brutal
attacks by the Edomites in the southeast and the Philistines coming from the west.
However, none of that humbled wicked king A has.
He let it debauched life.
He sought refuge with pagan rulers.
He adopted their way of worship, and he even sacrificed his own sons in the fire in the
valley of Hennum.
No wonder Micah wrote what he did in the words of today's text.
Let's go back and read it now from Micah 7, 2 through 4.
The loyal one has perished from the earth.
Young men there is no one upright.
All of them lie an ambush for bloodshed, each hunts his own brother with a dragnet.
Their hands are expert at doing what is bad.
The prince is making demands.
The judge asks for a reward.
The prominent one makes known his desires, and they work it out together.
Their best one is like thorns.
Their most upright one is worse than a thorn hedge.
So what's the meaning of the metaphor?
The topic?
The unfaithful Israelites.
The image?
A patch of briars and thorns.
The point of similarity.
Just as getting stuck in briars or a thorn hedge injures anyone who walks into it.
These corrupt Israelites harmed anyone with whom they had dealings.
Now how far did the corruption go?
Back in verse 2 it said it was all pervasive.
There was no one, not even one who was upright.
Verse 3 indicated it reached the highest levels of society.
The prominent expressed their wishes.
The judges accepted bribes to carry out those wishes and they all were in cahoots.
They worked it out together.
Now verse 3 says this included the prince.
Who would have been the prince in the days of King Ahaz?
Hezekiah?
Micah have written those words during the actual reign of Hezekiah.
If so, how would Hezekiah respond?
Wasn't he a good king?
Wouldn't he say, now wait a minute, prophet, you've got it all wrong.
Would he get offended?
Would he imprison Micah for sedition?
We gain a fascinating insight from a conversation that took place a century or so later recorded
by Jeremiah in chapter 26.
Notice what it says in Jeremiah 26, 18 and 19.
Micah of Moreshath was prophesying in the days of King Ahaz, and he said to all the people
of Judah, this is what Jehovah of Army says.
During Micah 312, verse 19, did Hezekiah of Judah and all Judah then put him to death?
Did he not fear Jehovah and beg for Jehovah's favor so that Jehovah changed his mind concerning
the calamity that he had spoken against them?
Hezekiah repented at what Micah preached, fascinating insight.
Did Micah stir in young Hezekiah a desire to be a better student of God's law?
Did Hezekiah as a prince then write the 119th Psalm with its famous concluding words,
I have strayed like a lost sheep, search for your servant, for I have not forgotten your
commandment, although we can't say for certain, it's all within the realm of possibility.
And what we do know is that Hezekiah took Micah's counsel to heart because Micah was
patient.
Micah stuck with His assignment.
Even though Micah wrote the words of today's text, He refused to give up hope in Jehovah's
ability to bring about changes in people's hearts and people's thinking.
Micah's patience paid off.
He waited on Jehovah.
He saw wonderful results right in his own lifetime and you too are acting loyally in a very
disloyal world.
What will be the effect of your patient endurance on others today?